Add ERC: AI Agent NFTs (#348)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7662.md

---
eip: 7662
title: AI Agent NFTs
description: A specification for NFTs that represent AI Agents.

> author: Greg Marlin (@0marleymarl)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
author: Greg Marlin (@marleymarl)
```
This should be your GitHub username

Reviewer 2: Good catch @abcoathup  LOL

Author: Was going to say, nice catch, thanks - fixed.

## Motivation

The creation and trading of AI Agent NFTs are a natural fit and offer the potential for an entirely new onchain market. This requires some custom data to be embedded in the NFT through a custom struct and this needs to be standardized so that any marketplace or AI Agent management product, among others, know how to create and parse AI Agent NFTs.  

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

All ERC-XXXX compliant contracts MUST implement the standard [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) functionality for minting and transferring NFTs, and MUST additionally implement this standard's Agent struct

```solidity
   

> struct Agent {

Reviewer 2: Can you elaborate why this needs to be stored onchain as opposed to be stored as ERC721 Metadata?

Author: The primary reason for not storing them directly in the metadata is for the case if someone didn’t encrypt the prompts. If they are stored onchain someone could still discover them but it would be a lot harder for a casual user, for example looking at the NFT on a marketplace. Many marketplaces list a link to the TokenURI that can easily be looked up, and thus the casual user could easily just grab the prompts and not buy the NFT, whereas if it's stored onchain they can't. If stored onchain unencrypted, a determined user could e.g. look up the info on a block explorer or look it up from a self-built app but considering most of these I expect to be priced fairly low then it’s easier to just pay for it, for most cases. For high-value agents, then those sellers should obviously opt for the encryption.

Since I’m recommending encryption of the prompts anyway, and will be using that in the reference implementation, it could make sense to adapt the Metadata Standard for this since encrypted prompt URIs could be exposed in the metadata, however I’ve tried to avoid enforcing the need for encryption in the standard if that makes sense. 

Another consideration for putting it onchain is to be a foundation for further future extensibility in terms of building out new data features to that struct (that can be accessed with the same call i.e. Agents[id]) and opening up the possibility of other smart contracts interacting with the data in that struct.

---
eip: 7662
title: AI Agent NFTs

> description: A specification for NFTs that represent AI Agents.

Reviewer 3: Your description doesn't include any new information that wasn't in your title, and it has a bit of fluff ("A specification for".) You should use the description to elaborate on the ideas introduced in the title as succinctly as possible.

For example, what is an AI Agent?

Author: Good point - will add, thanks.

author: Greg Marlin (@marleymarl)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7662-ai-agent-nfts/19371
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2024-03-26
requires: 721
---

## Abstract

> This proposal introduces a standard for AI agent NFTs. In order for AI Agents to be created and traded as NFTs it doesn't make sense to put the prompts in the token metadata, therefore it requires a standard custom struct. It also needs doesn't make sense to store the prompts directly onchain as they can be quite large, therefore this standard proposes they be stored as decentralized storage URLs. This standard also proposes two options on how this data should be made private to the owner of the NFT, with the favored implementation option being encrypting the data using custom contract parameters for decryption that decrypt only to the owner of the NFT. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This proposal introduces a standard for AI agent NFTs. When AI Agents are created and traded as NFTs, it doesn't make sense to put the prompts in the token metadata, therefore it requires a standard custom struct. It also doesn't make sense to store the prompts directly onchain as they can be quite large, therefore this standard proposes they be stored as decentralized storage URLs. This standard also proposes two options on how this data should be made private to the owner of the NFT, with the favored implementation option being encrypting the data using custom contract parameters for decryption that decrypt only to the owner of the NFT. 
```

Author: Better - agreed, thanks.

> This proposal introduces a standard for AI agent NFTs. In order for AI Agents to be created and traded as NFTs it doesn't make sense to put the prompts in the token metadata, therefore it requires a standard custom struct. It also needs doesn't make sense to store the prompts directly onchain as they can be quite large, therefore this standard proposes they be stored as decentralized storage URLs. This standard also proposes two options on how this data should be made private to the owner of the NFT, with the favored implementation option being encrypting the data using custom contract parameters for decryption that decrypt only to the owner of the NFT. 

Reviewer 3: Your abstract does a good job of covering a technical overview, but it doesn't really explain the goal of the proposal very well. After reading the abstract, the reader should have _both_ a technical overview and an idea of the problem the proposal is trying to solve.

Author: Got it, will add that, thanks again.

## Motivation

The creation and trading of AI Agent NFTs are a natural fit and offer the potential for an entirely new onchain market. This requires some custom data to be embedded in the NFT through a custom struct and this needs to be standardized so that any marketplace or AI Agent management product, among others, know how to create and parse AI Agent NFTs.  

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> All ERC-XXXX compliant contracts MUST implement the standard [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) functionality for minting and transferring NFTs, and MUST additionally implement this standard's Agent struct

Reviewer 3: It is unclear how a contract should "implement" a struct. Normally you implement an interface.

Author: Will make that update, thanks.

```solidity
   
struct Agent {
  string name;
  string description;
  string model;
  string userPromptURI;
  string systemPromptURI;
  bool promptsEncrypted;
}
```

and MUST implement the mapping between NFT Token ID and its Agent information.

```solidity
   
mapping(uint => Agent) public Agents;
```

> It is RECOMMENDED that this mapping is public and that the URIs for User Prompt and System Prompt are made private through encryption with decryption set to the holder of the NFT via custom contract parameters set during encryption, such as those provided by Lit Protocol. 

Reviewer 3: "Lit Protocol" is an external link, and we have a fairly strict policy on those. Please include a specific encryption scheme or explicitly leave it undefined. The scheme can be included in this proposal, another proposal, or in a permitted external origin.

Please see [EIP-1](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1#linking-to-external-resources) for allowed origins.

Author: Understood. Will consider and update.

It is conceivable to also create an implementation whereby this mapping was set to private and accessed through a custom function that restricted access to the holder of the NFT. This approach would explose the prompts through their urls though, therefore the RECOMMENDED approach is a public mapping and encryption on the URLs. This also has the benefit of publicly exposing the data in the Agent struct to verify name, description and model and that encyrpted URIs for the User Prompt and System Prompt exist. 

All ERC-XXXX compliant contracts MUST implement the mintAgent function

```solidity
   
function mintAgent(address _recipient, string memory _name, string memory _description, string memory _model, string memory _userPromptURI, string memory _systemPromptURI, string memory _imageURI, string memory _category, string memory _tokenURI) public {
        tokenIds++;
        bool _promptsEncrypted = false;
        Agents[tokenIds] = Agent(_name, _description, _model, _userPromptURI, _systemPromptURI, _imageURI, _category, _promptsEncrypted);

        _mint(_recipient, tokenIds);
        collectionIds[_recipient].push(tokenIds);
        _setTokenURI(tokenIds, _tokenURI);

>         emit AgentCreated(_name, _description, _model, _category, _recipient, tokenIds);

Reviewer 3: Please do not specify the implementation of functions in an ERC. Describe the externally visible behaviour of the function, but the actual code should be left to implementers.

### Reference Implementation

This is being currently implemented in a CEO AI product for creating, managing and using AI Agents Onchain through a DApp interface. In this implementation, Lit Protocol is being used to encrypt the prompts using custom EVMContractParameters that only decrypt for the holder of the NFT and using Arweave to store the URLs of this encrypted data. To facilitate that and make DApp handling easier, some parameters were added to Agent and the addEncryptedPrompts function is added that enables adding the encrypted prompt URIs after first minting the NFT (as the tokenId of the NFT is needed for setting the encryption/decryption conditions)

```solidity

> // SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

Reviewer 3: Code in the proposal itself must be licensed under `CC0-1.0`. You may put MIT code in the assets directory if you wish.

    }

    /**
     * @dev Remove the given token from collectionIds. 
     *
     * @param from address from
     * @param tokenId tokenId to remove
     */
    function _popId(address from, uint256 tokenId) internal {
        uint256[] storage _collectionIds = collectionIds[from];
        for (uint256 i = 0; i < _collectionIds.length; i++) {
            if (_collectionIds[i] == tokenId) {
                if (i != _collectionIds.length - 1) {
                    _collectionIds[i] = _collectionIds[_collectionIds.length - 1];
                }
                _collectionIds.pop();
                break;
            }
        }
    }

     /**
     * @dev Transfers `tokenId` from `from` to `to`. 
     *
     * Requirements:
     *
     * - `tokenId` token must be owned by `from`.
     *
     * @param from address from
     * @param to address to
     * @param tokenId tokenId to transfer
     */
    function _transfer(
        address from,
        address to,
        uint256 tokenId
    ) internal override {
        super._transfer(from, to, tokenId);
        _popId(from, tokenId);
        collectionIds[to].push(tokenId);
    }

    
}

```

## Security Considerations

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

<!-- TODO -->
```
